# Introduction to Beautiful Soup: Python library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files.

## Table of Contents
1. Introduction
2. Prerequisites
3. Setting up the enviornment
4. Making the Soup
    - Project Structure
5. Kind of Objects
    - Tag
    - Attribute

---

## 1. Introduction
Beautiful Soup is a Python package for parsing HTML and XML documents, including those with malformed markup. It creates a parse tree for documents that can be used to extract data from HTML, which is useful for web scraping.
## 2. Prerequisites
Before starting with Beautiful Soup, ensure you have the following:
- Basic knowledge of Python.
- Understanding of web development concepts (HTML, CSS, JavaScript).
- Python installed on your machine (version 3.6 or higher).
- pip (Python package installer) installed.

## 3. Setting Up Your Environment
1. **Install Python**: Download and install Python from python.org.
2. **Create a Virtual Environment**:
    ```
    python -m venv venv
    ```
3. **Activate the Virtual Environment**:
    - On Windows:
        ```
        venv\Scripts\activate
        ```
    - On macOS/Linux:
        ```
        source venv/bin/activate
        ```
4. **Install Beautiful Soup**:
    ```
    pip install beautifulsoup4
    ```
5. **Install a parser**:
Beautiful Soup supports the HTML parser included in Python’s standard library, but it also supports a number of third-party Python parsers. One is the lxml parser. Depending on your setup, you might install lxml with this commands:
    ```
    pip install lxml
    ```


## 4. Making the Soup
To parse a document, pass it into the BeautifulSoup constructor. You can pass in a string or an open filehandle:
### Project Structure

```
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

with open("index.html") as fp:
    soup = BeautifulSoup(fp)

soup = BeautifulSoup("<html>data</html>")
```


## 5. Kinds of objects
Beautiful Soup transforms a complex HTML document into a complex tree of Python objects. But you’ll only ever have to deal with about four kinds of objects: Tag, NavigableString, BeautifulSoup, and Comment.
## Tag
A Tag object corresponds to an XML or HTML tag in the original document:
```python
soup = BeautifulSoup('<b class="boldest">Extremely bold</b>')
tag = soup.b
type(tag)
# <class 'bs4.element.Tag'>
```
### Name
Every tag has a name, accessible as .name:
```python
tag.name
# u'b'
```
If you change a tag’s name, the change will be reflected in any HTML markup generated by Beautiful Soup:

```python
tag.name = "blockquote"
tag
# <blockquote class="boldest">Extremely bold</blockquote>
```
## Attributes
A tag may have any number of attributes. The tag <b id="boldest"> has an attribute “id” whose value is “boldest”. You can access a tag’s attributes by treating the tag like a dictionary:
```python
tag['id']
# u'boldest'
```

You can access that dictionary directly as .attrs:
```
tag.attrs
# {u'id': 'boldest'}
```

You can add, remove, and modify a tag’s attributes. Again, this is done by treating the tag as a dictionary:
```
tag['id'] = 'verybold'
tag['another-attribute'] = 1
tag
# <b another-attribute="1" id="verybold"></b>

del tag['id']
del tag['another-attribute']
tag
# <b></b>

tag['id']
# KeyError: 'id'
print(tag.get('id'))
# None
``